add README.md, RustString library, Iterator, general functions (#1)
model-checking/rust-lean-models: README.md

<!---
-- Copyright Kani Contributors
-- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 OR MIT
---> 

## rust-lean-models

Lean models of various Rust libraries to facilitate Lean-based verification of Rust programs.

## Description
The library defines equivalent Lean versions of functions from the Rust standard library.

> This library is intended to be used for verifying string-manipulating Rust programs via Lean.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This library is intended to be used for verifying Rust programs via Lean.
```

The Lean implementation is based on the description of the Rust functions, which are published at https://doc.rust-lang.org/std.
The library includes:
- Definitions of functions equivalent to those from the Rust standard library

> - Proofs that these definitions are correct (i.e., match our understanding of the Rust original)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Proofs that these definitions are consistent with the description of the Rust functions
```

- Supporting lemmas and theorems for proof construction

## Installation

To use the library, add the following lines to your `lakefile.lean`:

> ` require rust-lean-models from git "https://github.com/model-checking/rust-lean-models" `

Reviewer: Can you test if this works using your fork?

Author: done

Then do `lake update` in the terminal.

## Usage

> ### Translating Rust program 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Translating a Rust program 
```
OR
```suggestion
### Translating Rust programs
```

> For any Rust built-in functions which are used in user code , map it with 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For any Rust built-in functions which are used in user code, map it with 
```

the corresponding function name in the library (see the Tables below).

### Proof Tutorial

> We demonstrate some proof techniques in Proof_Tutorial.lean through two simple programs that compute

Reviewer: Please make Proof_Tutorial.lean a link to the actual file so that people can click on it.

the longest common prefix and longest common substring of the two input strings. 

> More examples can be found in Proof_Example.lean

Reviewer: Same here

## Implementation

### Recursive function definition
For each Rust function, we provide a recursive Lean function. Implementing 
the equivalent functions in Lean recursively enables user to construct 

> induction proofs conveniently. The Lean function has the same as the Rust original, 

Reviewer: > The Lean function has the same as the Rust original

Missing "name"?

> except when the Rust name  clashes with a Lean keyword. In case of a clash, a Rust function 'func_name' 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
except when the Rust name clashes with a Lean keyword. In case of a clash, a Rust function 'func_name' 
```

is renamed to `rust_func_name` in Lean.

Implementing a function recursively may requires some extra parameters.
In those cases, first, we implement an auxiliary function (name: `func_name_aux`) which is defined 
recursively with the parameters, then we define the function `func_name` based on the auxiliary function 
with initial values for the parameters. 
For example, `char_indices` is defined based on `char_indices_aux` as 

> `def char_indices (s: Str):= char_indices_aux s 0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`def char_indices (s: Str) := char_indices_aux s 0`.
```

Reviewer: Can you add "where the parameter is ..." and describe what the parameter denotes.

For Rust functions involving the `Pattern` type, we implement two recursive sub-functions 
(name: `func_name_char_filter` and  `func_name_substring`) which replace the `Pattern` type 
in the input by either a char filter (or type`Char → Bool`) or a `List Char`. Then we define 
the function `func_name` based on these two sub-functions by matching the input of `Pattern` type.
For example, `split` is defined by two sub-functions `split_char_filter` and `split_substring` as: 

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```lean
```
Please add `lean` to all code snippets to enable syntax highlighting.

def split (s: Str) (p: Pattern) := match p with
| Pattern.SingleChar c => split_char_filter s (fun x => x = c)
| Pattern.ListChar l => split_char_filter s (fun x => x ∈ l)
| Pattern.FilterFunction f => split_char_filter s f
| Pattern.WholeString s1 => split_substring s s1
```
All recursive implementations are proven to be "correct" in the sense that they are consistent with

> the Rust original (see below for more details).

Reviewer: I would reword this to "are consistent with the descriptions of the Rust versions".

## Correctness Proofs

> ### For functions that return Bool or can be defined based on other functions that have already been proven correct

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### For functions that return `bool` or can be defined based on other functions that have already been proven correct
```

   
- First, we provide a variant Lean definition of the Rust function that we call the definitional 

> version (with name`func_name_def`).  This version is intended to match the documented description 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
version (with name `func_name_def`).  This version is intended to match the documented description 
```

> of the Rust function. Ideally, the definitional version should not contains recursion, except in some trivial cases, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the Rust function. Ideally, the definitional version should not contain recursion, except in some trivial cases, 
```

but it can make use of the recursive versions of other functions that have been previously proven correct.

- Then, we state and prove a theorem that shows that the recursive and definitional versions of Rust 
function `func_name` are equivalent. This equivalence theorem is called `func_name_EQ` and 
it has type `func_name = func_name_def`.
The theorem ensures that the function is implemented correctly 

> and allows the two versions to be used interchangably. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and allows the two versions to be used intercheangably. 
```

Author: interchangeably is correct

In some cases, constructing a non-induction proof using the definitional version is more convenient.

- For example, the function `is_char_boundary` has a definitional version: 

    `def is_char_boundary_def (s: Str) (p: Nat) := p ∈ (ListCharPos s ++ [byteSize s])`

    and an equivalence theorem 

    `theorem is_char_boundary_EQ : is_char_boundary s p =  is_char_boundary_def s p`.

> When Rust description cannot be efficiently expressed in Lean (require recursions, or very unintuitive),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the description of a Rust function cannot be efficiently expressed in Lean (requires recursions, or is unintuitive),
```

    
    ```
    def sum_list_Nat (l : List Nat) := List.foldl Nat.add 0 l`
    def byteSize_def (s : List Char) : Nat := sum_list_Nat (List.map (fun x: Char => Char.utf8Size x) s)
    ```

- Define and prove the correctness of one/some subordinate function(s), 
then define the definitional version based on them. 
    For example, to define `split_inclusive_char_filter_def`, firstly we define and prove the coreectness of two functions:
    - `list_char_filter_charpos (s: Str) (f: Char → Bool)`: returns the list of positions of characters in `s` satisfying the filter `f`

    - `split_at_charpos_list (s: Str) (l: List Nat)`: split the strings `s` at positions in `l`

    then define `split_inclusive_char_filter_def` based on them:

    ```
    def split_inclusive_char_filter_def (s: Str) (f: Char → Bool):= split_at_charpos_list s (List.map (fun x => x+1) (list_char_filter_charpos s f))
    ```
defined based on the
### When the Rust documentation describes properties of the return value 
We state and prove a soundness theorem for the function with
name: `func_name_sound` and type: `x = func_name input1 input2 ...  ↔ properties of x`.

> For example, the soundness thorem for the function `floor_char_boundary` is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the soundness theorem for the function `floor_char_boundary` is 
```

<!---
-- Copyright Kani Contributors
-- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 OR MIT
---> 

## rust-lean-models

Lean models of various Rust libraries to facilitate Lean-based verification of Rust programs.

## Description
The library defines equivalent Lean versions of functions from the Rust standard library.
This library is intended to be used for verifying Rust programs via Lean.

The Lean implementation is based on the description of the Rust functions, which are published at https://doc.rust-lang.org/std.
The library includes:
- Definitions of functions equivalent to those from the Rust standard library
- Proofs that these definitions are consistent with the description of the Rust functions
- Supporting lemmas and theorems for proof construction

## Installation

-  Add the following lines to your `lakefile.lean`:

    ` require «rust-lean-models» from git "https://github.com/model-checking/rust-lean-models" `

> - Change the lean version in `lean-toolchain.lean` to that of `"https://github.com/model-checking/rust-lean-models/lean-toolchain.lean"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Change the lean version in your `lean-toolchain` to the one in https://github.com/model-checking/rust-lean-models/blob/main/lean-toolchain
```

## Installation

-  Add the following lines to your `lakefile.lean`:

    ` require «rust-lean-models» from git "https://github.com/model-checking/rust-lean-models" `

> - Change the lean version in `lean-toolchain.lean`:

Reviewer: We'd like to keep the Lean toolchain version up-to-date, so to avoid updating the README.md every time we update the toolchain version, let's just say "Change the Lean version in `lean-toolchain` to match the version used in this package" or something like that.

    ` leanprover/lean4:v4.10.0-rc2 `

- Run `lake update` in the terminal.

> - Import the packages and open the namespaces"

Reviewer: Add "in your Lean files" at the end.

>     ```

Reviewer: ````
```lean
````
